If you've never ever programmed before,
and
you just randomly took a wrong
turn on the highway, and
you got lost on the bad part of town and
you ended up in this workshop.
It's cool because,
this would be the place to
show up because we're going
to approach programming
from the standpoint that
we were assuming nothing.
And the one thing that I do
wanna call out is we're gonna
do a little bit wax on, wax off.
And if you seen the movie and somebody
else has it and I don't understand
what he's talking about fill it in and
chats, but essentially Mr.
Miyagi had Denilson do a bunch of really
tedious stuff that didn't make sense.
And then, at some point, Daniel said,
I've had enough I'm not doing this.
And speaking of wax in the car, Mr.
Miyagi is like, well,
you've been actually learning karate
the entire time, try to punch me.
Dennison tried to punch him and all of
a sudden, or actually Mr. Merrick said,
I'm gonna punch you wax the car and
Dennison he basically blocked the punch.
So what we're gonna do now is
we're going to wax the car and
we are going to then realize that
we're actually blocking punches.
So even as small children,
we understand that our world
consists of things and
that these things have characteristics
that make them unique.
And so we understand that we have a car.
That might be read,
it might be a Ford or Chevy or a Tesla.
That you have a person that has a name,
first name and a last name.
Hair color.
We understand that there are things in
this world that have characteristics and
our job is to articulate
those characteristics,
and the relationships that those
objects have with each other.
Now, I would imagine that at some point,
at some time,
somebody is gonna see this and they're
gonna do this huge I roll like seriously
we're talking about like
objects like primitive objects.
The problem is that the majority or
a major portion of complexity stems from
the fact that someone has
not taken the time to
properly model the domain
that they are in.
And so, when you wanna talk about
application complexity, you have to
start at the domain model, like this is
the most important thing in the world.
When you're writing code is you have
to get your domain model correct.
What that means is you have to create and
define the objects that
are going to exist in your application
in a way that is accurate for
the reality in which
you're trying to describe.
Let me give you an example.
I was working with someone the other
day and apprentice and their
physical therapist and we were modelling
the domain of a physical therapist.
And what we realized or
what he realized is that you would
model a patient and
you would model a physical therapist.
And naively, you would say
that a physical therapist has
a relationship with a patient,
a direct relationship, but
what we realized is that
the relationship between the patient and
the therapist was only
through the treatment.
And you realize that you actually have
a one or many to many relationship is
that one patient can actually
have more than one therapist and
one therapist can have
more than one patient.
And all sudden now you realize that
the relationship between the therapist and
the patient is that if you were
to model it is not direct.
But there's actually a treatment or
a session that exists in between that and
if he had gotten that wrong,
it would have completely impeded and
impaired his ability to model
an application around that.
And so
it's incredibly important to get data
models correct which come down to yeah,
like,
we are going to write very simple
objects to describe a domain.
The one thing I will say is that when you
understand a domain, or a domain object,
the domain model, there's a lot of things
that you can know about that application.
So if I showed you this client object.
And I asked you, what do you think an
input form, like a form would look like,
to create a new client?
Everybody is hopefully looking and
they're saying, well,
that's a form with three fields
first name, last name, company.
It's easy, like,
if I gave you a user object,
you know what that form looks like.
Not only that is you know what
the rest endpoints look like.
You know what your Redux
is gonna look like,
you know what your NTRs
is going to look like.
There's so much that you can
know about an application.
When you understand the domain model,
so back to our objects in JavaScript,
you can define an object
is an object literal.
Like this is I'm saying
with my curly braces.
I have this thing And
I have these properties or
characteristics that have these values.
First name is John.
Last name is Doe company is Acme, Inc.
And you can have various
properties on this.
So in this case, if I'm working with
a field I generally will have a blank or
like a mock object where I can say
the ID is null, first name, last name,
company is empty.
And so you can have more than one
object with different properties.
Not only that, but
you can have a collection of objects.
And so you can have more than
one object in a collection.
So We'll talk about objects which
are nothing more than nouns or
data structures.
And then you're going to have an array or
a collection of more than
one of those objects.
Now we have an object and
then we have interfaces.
In an interface is a way for
us to describe what something is.
And so in a way,
I think of an interface as a contract,
that if I'm going to create,
a bunch of clients,
and I'm going to ensure that these
are indeed clients as advertised.
By defining an interface and
implementing that interface,
I now have the ability to strongly
typed that object as well
as strongly type the collection.
And so a contract or an interface
is a way to communicate intent and
to ensure compliance
across your application.
Now, we have classes.
So if an object is
an instance of something and
an interface is a contract,
a class is nothing
more than a blueprint to create objects.
And so if you have, for
instance, a housing development,
which we have a ton of these in Phoenix
that you might say we're building this
housing development and
here's the blueprint.
Or here's three blueprints for the three
possible houses that we can have.
So the blueprints are not a house.
A class is not an instance of an object.
A blueprint only defines the behavior and
the parameters that are going to exist for
that object when it's created.
And then a, I think of interfaces is,
let's say like city regulations or
zoning laws that if you're
going to build a house in this
neighborhood then it can't be
more than two storeys high.
Because imagine how funny that would look,
if you had a six storey house in
a neighborhood of, a bunch of single story
ranch houses, that would be hilarious.
And so
all a class does is it's a blueprint.
For defining how an object
is going to be created and
the properties and
the behavior that you're going to give it.
And so now I've defined a VIP client and
I'm saying.
Iron Man equals new VIP
client which then returns
an instance of that object and
then we can trace this out.